Hello everyone and welcome to lecture on job types overview.
So we're going to categorize job types and programming into seven different categories.
Those are infrastructure back and Front-End native science and theory marketing.
And then finally hardware and graphics.
So one thing to know is that there's definitely overlap between the skills required for each of these
positions and even some titles overlap between categories.
So just keep that in mind first up infrastructure.
So there's this admin which is a position where you manage set up and keep systems running.
And there's also dev ops where you create and use tools that developers use to manage systems.
There's also network engineering setting up Xining and optimizing network infrastructures so is data
center operations who basically keep the clock running along with that there's also cable and router
technicians database administrators and then technical support and documentation staff who actually
have to interact with customers and users.
Then there's backend.
So quite a few positions here.
There's full second in-ears to do a little bit of everything back and application development we use
things such as rails and Django.
So Ruby and Rails and then Python for Django node et cetera.
So so project management which isn't always a technical role and there's engineering management where
foreign developers usually get hired into a management position.
Just keep in mind that the terms product management project management and engineering management may
mean different things at different companies.
It's also software architects who plan out features before they're actually coded.
There's also API design where you design interfaces between systems security and penetration testing
distributed system architects who deal of consistency availability partition tolerance timing of large
globally separated systems and there's also database administrators
then the Front-End.
So the Front-End there is full stack engineers who again do a little bit of everything but they're focused
primarily on the pieces that support a frontman of a Web site.
So then there's you X and UI front end designers who deal with Photoshop in design sketch.
Each team elenchi SS etc. that's their piece of the pie there.
Then there's general far and the Web development so TMLC SS and Javascript single page app development
.
So those are people who mostly deal with javascript framework such as angular or react.
Then there's also quality assurance and testing.
So you write tests do human tests make sure things actually work.
Then the next category is native.
So these are people who develop an iOS or a swift Android Windows Mobile etc. They also work on consumer
facing windows desktop applications OSX desktop applications and even Linux app development.
So enterprise software development so large.
Made to order applications for businesses I.T. administration and Adam in software design.
These are often very system specific events that go in their native category here and also software
architecture similar to that back and architectural design features before they're actually coded.
Then there's a science and theory category.
So there's scientific research.
These are people in academia who use Matlab are in Python.
And more those kinds of things.
So so pure computer science or pure math rolls where they research with Pascal lips and lots of other
languages.
There's scientific software development.
So for instance there some companies working on protein folding software.
A lot of biotech companies.
There's just a general term data science which is what I do personally which again is matlab are I Python
sikat learn etc. and machine learning which also falls under data science.
Then there's OS design which isn't just Microsoft Windows and Linux but also things and companies such
as Qualcomm and lots of other telecoms hire tens of thousands of engineers right embedded and mobile
operating systems.
It's also marketing which has a lot of crossover with data science but terms like growth hacking or
web scraping where the selenium beautiful soup packages for Python Fantom James sikat learn which is
a machine learning package for Python pattern etc..
There's analytics so you can use Mixpanel optimized et etc..
This is also closely tied of marketing and SEO Search Engine Optimization.
And then just general marketing development things such as sales force analytics content design and
again search engine optimization as CEO.
Finally there's hardware and graphics so there is embedded software.
This is known as code that runs very close to the metal such as the assembly code running an elevator
.
There's also chip design and architecture.
There's game development which a lot of people feel is much different than normal development.
Just keep that in mind.
And there's also graphics software development.
Sometimes is a crossover between that and game development.
Then there's 3D printing and machine coding.
And then there's CGI and animation.
All right.
I know there was a ton so you can go ahead and check out the resource link at this lecture for this
PowerPoint presentation so you can look over the position slowly on your own time.
But in conclusion most engineers and programmers have skills in multiple categories.
So just think about what interests you as you go on and continue throughout this course.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture